k8s-bare/doc/06.etcd.md, before:

# 06 etcd3 configuration

## configuration parameters
1. quota-backend-bytes (Storage size limit) : Use the flag --quota-backend-bytes command to set space quota. The default value for space quota is 2 GB, which is a conservative space quota suitable for most applications. The maximum value is 8 GB.
2. --max-request-bytes (Request size limit): ETCD is designed to handle small key value pairs typical for metadata. Larger requests will work, but may increase the latency of other requests. By default, the maximum size of any request is 1.5 MiB. This limit is configurable through --max-request-bytes flag for etcd server.
2. Adjust periodic compaction retention window.v3.3.3 (2018-03-29)
    1. --auto-compaction-mode=revision --auto-compaction-retention=1000 automatically Compact on "latest revision" - 1000 every 5-minute (when latest revision is 30000, compact on revision 29000).
    2. Previously, --auto-compaction-mode=periodic --auto-compaction-retention=72h automatically Compact with 72-hour retention windown for every 7.2-hour. Now, Compact happens, for every 1-hour but still with 72-hour retention window.
    3.  Previously, --auto-compaction-mode=periodic --auto-compaction-retention=30m automatically Compact with 30-minute retention windown for every 3-minute. Now, Compact happens, for every 30-minute but still with 30-minute retention window.
3. initial-advertise-peer-urls and initial-cluster should remain consistent; otherwise etcd3 fails to start.

## Interacting with etcd

1. Check cluster member
```bash
etcdctl   \
   --endpoints 'https://10.220.209.201:2379,https://10.220.209.202:2379,https://10.220.209.203:2379' \
   --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
   --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.crt \
   --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.key member list
```
2. Check cluster leader
```bash
etcdctl  -w table \
  --endpoints 'https://10.220.209.201:2379,https://10.220.209.202:2379,https://10.220.209.203:2379' \
  --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
  --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.crt \
  --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.key endpoint status

Output:
  started, kubernetes, https://10.220.209.201:2380,https://10.220.209.202:2380,https://10.220.209.203:2380, https://10.220.209.201:2379
```
3. Newly Added folders and files
    1. /etc/etcd
    2. /var/lib/etcd
    3. /usr/local/bin/etcd
    4. /usr/local/bin/etcdctl
    5. /etc/systemd/system/etcd.service



## References
  1. [etcd生产环境实践](https://songrgg.github.io/etcd/etcd-for-production/)
  2. [etcd documnetation](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/op-guide/configuration.html)
  3. [What stores Kubernetes in Etcd?](https://jakubbujny.com/2018/09/02/what-stores-kubernetes-in-etcd/)

Commit message:

blogs for multiple kubernetes cluster management

k8s-bare/doc/06.etcd.md, after:

# 06 etcd3 configuration

## configuration parameters
1. quota-backend-bytes (Storage size limit) : Use the flag --quota-backend-bytes command to set space quota. The default value for space quota is 2 GB, which is a conservative space quota suitable for most applications. The maximum value is 8 GB.
2. --max-request-bytes (Request size limit): ETCD is designed to handle small key value pairs typical for metadata. Larger requests will work, but may increase the latency of other requests. By default, the maximum size of any request is 1.5 MiB. This limit is configurable through --max-request-bytes flag for etcd server.
2. Adjust periodic compaction retention window.v3.3.3 (2018-03-29)
    1. --auto-compaction-mode=revision --auto-compaction-retention=1000 automatically Compact on "latest revision" - 1000 every 5-minute (when latest revision is 30000, compact on revision 29000).
    2. Previously, --auto-compaction-mode=periodic --auto-compaction-retention=72h automatically Compact with 72-hour retention windown for every 7.2-hour. Now, Compact happens, for every 1-hour but still with 72-hour retention window.
    3.  Previously, --auto-compaction-mode=periodic --auto-compaction-retention=30m automatically Compact with 30-minute retention windown for every 3-minute. Now, Compact happens, for every 30-minute but still with 30-minute retention window.
3. initial-advertise-peer-urls and initial-cluster should remain consistent; otherwise etcd3 fails to start.

## Interacting with etcd

1. Check cluster member
```bash
etcdctl   \
   --endpoints 'https://10.220.209.201:2379,https://10.220.209.202:2379,https://10.220.209.203:2379' \
   --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
   --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.crt \
   --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.key member list
```
2. Check cluster leader
```bash
etcdctl  -w table \
  --endpoints 'https://10.220.209.201:2379,https://10.220.209.202:2379,https://10.220.209.203:2379' \
  --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
  --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.crt \
  --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/healthcheck-client.key endpoint status

Output:
  started, kubernetes, https://10.220.209.201:2380,https://10.220.209.202:2380,https://10.220.209.203:2380, https://10.220.209.201:2379
```

3.  Run defragment operations for all endpoints in the cluster associated with the default endpoint
```bash
 etcd_v3 defrag
```
   
4. Newly Added folders and files
    1. /etc/etcd
    2. /var/lib/etcd
    3. /usr/local/bin/etcd
    4. /usr/local/bin/etcdctl
    5. /etc/systemd/system/etcd.service



## References
  1. [etcd生产环境实践](https://songrgg.github.io/etcd/etcd-for-production/)
  2. [etcd documnetation](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/op-guide/configuration.html)
  3. [What stores Kubernetes in Etcd?](https://jakubbujny.com/2018/09/02/what-stores-kubernetes-in-etcd/)
