k8s-bare/doc/09.node.md, before:

# Installing Node components

## kubelet
  1. verify csr
  ```bash
  kubectl get csr

  NAME AGE REQUESTOR CONDITION
node-csr-4fCDrNulc_btdBiRgev0JO4EorZ0rMuyJ756wrn9NqQ 27s system:bootstrap:e860ec Approved,Issued
node-csr-P3Y_knryQNaQWDDYFObtcdfXB4XAl9IB2Be2YJ-b-dA 27s system:bootstrap:e860ec Approved,Issued
node-csr-r_4ZDnanqBw2HPTSn6bSL50r-kJkTPjix6SY1n9UmjY 28s system:bootstrap:e860ec Approved,Issued
  ```
  2. verify node status
  ```bash
  kubectl get nodes

  NAME          STATUS     ROLES    AGE     VERSION
k82-node2     NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-master1   NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-master2   NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-master3   NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-node1     NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
  ```
  3. check kubelet port
  ```bash
  netstat -lnpt | grep kubelet

  tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10248    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      9880/kubelet
tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:41001         0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      9880/kubelet
tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10250    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      9880/kubelet


10248: healths http server
     curl http://10.220.209.202:10248/healthz

10250: https API service
  ```


  ## kube-proxy
  1. check ipvs routing rule
  ```bash
  ipvsadm -ln

  IP Virtual Server version 1.2.1 (size=4096)
Prot LocalAddress:Port Scheduler Flags
-> RemoteAddress:Port           Forward Weight ActiveConn InActConn
TCP  172.16.0.1:443 rr
-> 10.220.209.201:6443          Masq    1      0          0
-> 10.220.209.202:6443          Masq    1      0          0
-> 10.220.209.203:6443          Masq    1      0          0
  ```
  2. check kube-proxy port
  ```bash
    netstat -lnpt | grep kube-proxy

    tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10249    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      10277/kube-proxy
    tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10256    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      10277/kube-proxy


    10249：http prometheus metrics port;
    10256：http healthz port;
  ```
  3. check proxy mode
  ```bash
   curl http://10.220.209.202:10249/healthz
      ok

   curl http://10.220.209.202:10256/healthz

   curl http://10.220.209.202:10249/proxyMode
      ipvs

   Pull Almighty Pause Container:
    docker pull gcr.io/google_containers/pause:3.1
  ```
  4. Newly added folders
      * /opt/cni/bin
      * /etc/cni/net.d
      * /var/log/kubernetes/kube-proxy
      * /var/log/kubernetes/kubelet
      * /etc/systemd/system/kube-proxy

Commit message:

doc for installing calico networking plugin

k8s-bare/doc/09.node.md, after:

# Installing Node components

## kubelet
  1. verify csr
  ```bash
  kubectl get csr

  NAME AGE REQUESTOR CONDITION
node-csr-4fCDrNulc_btdBiRgev0JO4EorZ0rMuyJ756wrn9NqQ 27s system:bootstrap:e860ec Approved,Issued
node-csr-P3Y_knryQNaQWDDYFObtcdfXB4XAl9IB2Be2YJ-b-dA 27s system:bootstrap:e860ec Approved,Issued
node-csr-r_4ZDnanqBw2HPTSn6bSL50r-kJkTPjix6SY1n9UmjY 28s system:bootstrap:e860ec Approved,Issued
  ```
  2. verify node status
  ```bash
  kubectl get nodes

  NAME          STATUS     ROLES    AGE     VERSION
k82-node2     NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-master1   NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-master2   NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-master3   NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1
k8s-node1     NotReady   <none>   4h19m   v1.14.1

Reason for NotReady: Container runtime network not ready: NetworkReady=false reason:NetworkPluginNotReady message:docker: network plugin is not ready: cni config uninitialized
  ```
  3. check kubelet port
  ```bash
  netstat -lnpt | grep kubelet

  tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10248    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      9880/kubelet
tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:41001         0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      9880/kubelet
tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10250    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      9880/kubelet


10248: healths http server
     curl http://10.220.209.202:10248/healthz

10250: https API service
  ```

## kubelet important Flags
  - --allow-privileged=true: neet to set this flag to true because Calico-node needs to get the privileges of the operating systems to run.
  - ff

  ## kube-proxy
  1. check ipvs routing rule
  ```bash
  ipvsadm -ln (iptables -L -t nat)

  IP Virtual Server version 1.2.1 (size=4096)
Prot LocalAddress:Port Scheduler Flags
-> RemoteAddress:Port           Forward Weight ActiveConn InActConn
TCP  172.16.0.1:443 rr
-> 10.220.209.201:6443          Masq    1      0          0
-> 10.220.209.202:6443          Masq    1      0          0
-> 10.220.209.203:6443          Masq    1      0          0

This shows the IPVS rules for the in-cluster API server service
default/kubernetes:443. The virtual IP is 172.16.0.1:443,
incoming TCP packets are load balanced between three Kubernetes
master nodes (IP:6443) using round-robin.
  ```
  2. check kube-proxy port
  ```bash
    netstat -lnpt | grep kube-proxy

    tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10249    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      10277/kube-proxy
    tcp        0      0 10.220.209.202:10256    0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      10277/kube-proxy


    10249：http prometheus metrics port;
    10256：http healthz port;
  ```
  3. check proxy mode
  ```bash
   curl http://10.220.209.202:10249/healthz
      ok

   curl http://10.220.209.202:10256/healthz

   curl http://10.220.209.202:10249/proxyMode
      ipvs

   Pull Almighty Pause Container:
    docker pull gcr.io/google_containers/pause:3.1
  ```
  4. Newly added folders
      * /opt/cni/bin
      * /etc/cni/net.d
      * /var/log/kubernetes/kube-proxy
      * /var/log/kubernetes/kubelet
      * /etc/systemd/system/kube-proxy

## kube-proxy important Flags
  * --masquerade-all : [Allows service IPs to be accessed from outside of the cluster. This requires that the service range be routed to a node (or several nodes) in the cluster](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/24429).这个参数确实对ipvs模式一样起作用，一般较少使用--masquerade-all，而用--cluster-cidr来代替，这样可以区分内外部的流量，并且达到反向流量通过的目的。
  * --cluster-cidr: When configured, traffic sent to a Service cluster IP from outside this range will be masqueraded and traffic sent from pods to an external LoadBalancer IP will be directed to the respective cluster IP instead.

## References
  1. [IPVS-Based In-Cluster Load Balancing Deep Dive](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/07/09/ipvs-based-in-cluster-load-balancing-deep-dive/)
  2. [SNAT traffic from outside-cluster sources in kube-proxy](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/24224)
  3. [如何在 kubernetes 中啟用 ipvs – 運維](https://technologytw.com/2019/03/17139/)
  4. [Load Balancing and Reverse Proxying for Kubernetes Services](https://medium.com/@chamilad/load-balancing-and-reverse-proxying-for-kubernetes-services-f03dd0efe80)
